Hi there, it's me again.
You might remember me from the previous module.
And no worries if not.
What's important is that I'm here now.
We've made some updates to this program to make sure you got the latest info on mobile devices.
You'll see me again throughout the rest of this program, so keep your eyes peeled for me.
Let's talk about mobile devices.
Mobile devices are computers too.
They have CPUs, RAM, storage, power systems, and programs.
systems and peripherals. How are they different from a server, a desktop computer, or a laptop?
They're special because they're mobile. They're portable and usually powered by batteries.
Some mobile devices are general purpose computing devices like tablets or smartphones. Other
mobile devices are optimized to perform a specific set of tasks like fitness monitors,
ear readers, and smart watches. Mobile devices are usually very integrated.
Remember the systems that we showed you earlier?
The components could be taken out and held in your hand.
Mobile devices build some or all of these components together in a way that you can't take apart.
The smaller device, the more integrated the components usually are.
The CPU, RAM, and storage might be soldered directly to the device's motherboard.
Very small mobile devices use a system on a chip, or SOC.
A system on a chip packs the CPU, RAM,
and sometimes even the storage onto a single chip.
Not only are SOC small,
they use less battery power
than if those components were separated.
Even though they're small,
some mobile devices use peripherals.
Smartphones connect to Bluetooth headphones, for example.
Mobile devices can also be a peripheral.
A fitness tracker is a standalone device,
but it can also be a peripheral to your smartphone.
And that same fitness tracker might use a heart rate monitor
as a peripheral. It's peripherals all the way down. Mobile devices may use standard or proprietary
ports and connectors. You might need to have a specific adapter or connector for charging a device
or connecting your mobile device to a computer. Sometimes the physical shape or the intended use
of the mobile device makes a standard connection like USB a bad choice. For example, say you have a
waterproof fitness tracker. If it had a micro USB port, that port would be damaged if exposed to one.
So instead, it's designed with a custom charging interface that can be submerged underwater.
Here are some of the standard power data and display connector types you find used in mobile devices This is a USBC Next we have a lightning adapter then a mini USB and a micro USB a micro and a mini and
this is a mini display port.
Because mobile devices are generally small and have limited access to power, they run operating
systems and application software that's specifically designed to maximize their performance.
We'll dive into mobile operating systems and applications in future videos.
As an IT support specialist, you might be responsible for helping end users with their mobile devices.
This might include setup, troubleshooting, repairing, and replacing mobile devices.
Don't worry, we're going to break all of this down for you.
One super important thing, mobile devices can contain a lot of personal data.
Some organizations allow people to use their own personal devices for work.
for work. We call this Bring Your Own Device or B-Y-O-D. You should be careful to respect
people's privacy when they bring their own devices to you for help. To know how to handle
these devices is always best to refer to your organization's policy. Next up, we'll take a look
at how to keep these mobile devices running without being plugged into a power outlet
all the time.
Sometimes, instead of being plugged into a power outlet all the time, we want to be plugged into a power outlet all the time, we want to be plugged
to take our technology with us. Mobile technology uses rechargeable batteries to carry power
with the device wherever we take it. Rechargeable devices might have an external charger for
removable batteries or might have a cradle, stand, or wireless charger. So rechargeable devices
might have an external charger for removable battery or might have a cradle, stand, or wireless
charger. Look at this phone. We can top up the battery just by laying it on this wireless
inductive charging pad. Isn't that cool? It's also a pretty clever technology. If you want to know
how this works, check out the next reading. Rechargeable batteries have a limited lifespan, which is measured
in charge cycles. A charge cycle is one full charge and discharge of a battery. When a battery is
reaching the end of its lifespan, it may take longer to charge and might not hold as much charge as
when it was new. For some devices, you compare the current cycle count of your battery with the rated
cycle count of that battery type to see how much more life to expect out of it.
You need an external power source to add power to a battery.
This could come from a wall outlet, another battery, or even a solar panel.
You also need a charging circuit that manages the power transfer from the external power source to the rechargeable battery This circuit works a lot like a power supply unit or PSU that we looked at earlier
It makes sure the input power is converted to the correct output power.
Instead of using a large PSU, rechargeable devices use more portable power adapters, power
supplies, or chargers.
A portable power supply powers the device while also charging the battery.
These might sound obvious, but you need to make sure that you use the right charger for the right device.
Mismatching chargers to devices can damage the battery, the device, and the charger.
A lot of chargers and power supplies use USB connectors, but you'll see a wide variety of charging
connectors.
Rechargeable batteries can be damaged by very cold or very hot environments.
Don't charge or discharge recharge recharge recharge batteries unless they're within their safe operating temperature range.
It's not just that a damaged rechargeable battery might not perform well.
It can also be very dangerous.
Batteries can swell, rupture, and sometimes even catch fire.
Before working with a damaged battery, you should know how to safely handle it.
You'll find some supplemental readings after this video that explains how to safely handle
lithium ion batteries, which is a very common type of rechargeable battery.
Safe handling procedures vary based on the battery type, so be sure to read up on proper procedures,
before you work with a damaged battery.
When a battery reaches the end of its life,
you'll need to replace it.
Some devices will slow themselves down
when the battery is getting old
to make the battery last longer.
If your device is running much slower than usual
or shutting down unexpectedly,
one thing to check is the battery life.
Some devices have batteries
that are designed to be replaced by the end user.
Other devices have batteries that are very difficult
to replace, like small laptops and mobile devices.
As an IT support specialist, you might receive special training on how to replace batteries and devices that you support.
Or you might be the person sending the device out for battery replacement and then returning the device to the end user.
IT support specialists often have to troubleshoot battery life and device charging.
The first step is to make sure the charger, the battery, and the device are all designed to work with each other.
We'll talk about sending out devices for repair and troubleshooting skills in future videos, so stay here.
so stay tuned.
For iOS and Android,
there are also some things that you could do
to make the battery last as long as possible.
It's a good idea for you to be familiar with these things
so that you can help educate end users
on the best ways to get the most out of their mobile devices Check out the supplemental readings to learn more Repairing a mobile device is different from repairing larger more generic computers
First, there are thousands of types of mobile devices. There's nowhere we can cover all the differences.
Instead, let's check out some of the tools and techniques that you'll rely on to keep mobile devices in your organization running.
As an IT support specialist, you might receive training in this area and be responsive to
for repairing devices that your organization owns.
Before you attempt any repairs,
make sure you're familiar with your organization's policy
around mobile device repair.
Depending on the device, you may or may not be able to repair it
on your own.
But not so fast.
Keep in mind that even when you can repair a device on your own,
it will usually void the warranty.
So, check the impact on the warranty
before working on a device.
With specific training,
you might be able to perform some repairs without
violating the warranty of the device.
For example, you might be allowed to replace a crack
smartphone screen without voiding the warranty,
but you're probably not permitted to replace
a damaged charging port.
If you're not allowed to perform your own repairs,
then it may be your job to send the device out
for repair or replacement with an outside vendor or manufacturer.
You should know and understand the return,
merchandise, authorization, or RMA process
for each device that you deal with.
The device is warranty or the service agreement,
that your organization has with the device's manufacturer
will determine how and when it will be repaired or replaced.
Depending on the device and your organization's policies,
you might also need to make sure that there's no proprietary
or personal data on the device before it's sent off for repair
by doing a factory reset on the device.
A factory reset will remove all data, apps, and customizations from the device.
We'll talk a lot more about factory resets
and backing up end-user data in future videos.
For now, just keep in mind that the end user should be told what will happen to their data when a device is sent off for service.
When repairing a mobile device, follow the same best practices that we showed you for working on a PC.
Protect against static discharge, use the right tools, keep parts organized and labeled.
Taking pictures along the way can help a lot too.
Follow vendor documentation and test the device to make sure it still works.
Congratulations on finishing this lesson from the course.
Google IT Support Certificate.
Access the full experience, including job search help, and get the official certificate
by clicking the icon or the link in the description.
Watch the next lesson in the course by clicking here, and subscribe to our channel for more
lessons from upcoming Google Career Certificates.